ISSUE-7985: The topics for the "Company User" mutations have been cre… (#8104)
magento/devdocs: src/guides/v2.4/graphql/mutations/create-company-user.md

---
group: graphql
title: createCompanyUser mutation
contributor_name: Atwix
contributor_link: https://www.atwix.com/
b2b_only: true
---

> Use the `createCompanyUser` mutation to create a new company user or add a user from the existing customer for your company.

Reviewer: Who can run this mutation? Anyone with a customer/company user token? Do they need to have the "Manage users and teams" role permission?

Rewrite the first paragraph to be something like thuis

The `createCompanyUser` mutation allows an existing company user with the <role name> role to create a new company user. The specified email address determines how Magento processes the request.

*  If the email address is unique for the website?/store?/store view?, Magento immediately creates the company user.
*  If the email address belongs to a customer who is not a company user, Magento sends an invitation to join the company organization to the customer. When the customer accepts the invitation, Magento adds the customer to the company organization.
*  If the email address belongs to an existing company user with the same company, Magento returns the error `A customer with the same email already assigned to company.`
*  If the email address belongs to a customer who is part of another company organization, ????

The `target_id` input attribute allows you to specify which node in the company structure will be the parent node of the company user. If you do not specify a value, the user will be assigned to the top-level (root) node of the company structure.

You can get the `target_id` and the `role_id` with the [`company`]({{page.baseurl}}/graphql/queries/company.html) query.

## Syntax

```graphql
mutation {
    createCompanyUser(
        input: CompanyUserCreateInput!
    ) {
        CreateCompanyUserOutput
    }
}
```

## Example usage

> The following example shows the minimal payload for adding a new customer to a customer's company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows the minimal payload to add a company user. Because a `targit_id` is not specified, Magento places the new company user at the top node of the company structure.
```

      role_id: "NTc="
      status: ACTIVE
      telephone: "1234567890"
      target_id: "OA=="
    }
  ) {
    user {
      created_at
      email
      firstname
      lastname
      job_title
      role {
        id
        name
      }
      team {
        id
        name
        structure_id
      }
      status
      telephone
    }
  }
}
```

**Response:**

```json
{
  "data": {
    "createCompanyUser": {
      "user": {
        "created_at": "2020-10-15 23:39:11",
        "email": "jane.doe@example.com",
        "firstname": "Jane",
        "lastname": "Doe",
        "job_title": "User",
        "role": {
          "id": "NTc=",
          "name": "Default User"
        },
        "team": {
          "id": "MQ==",
          "name": "Test Team",
          "structure_id": "Mg=="
        },
        "status": "ACTIVE",
        "telephone": "1234567890"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Input attributes

The `CompanyUserCreateInput` input object defines the company user data.

### CompanyUserCreateInput attributes {#CompanyUserCreateInput}

The `CompanyUserCreateInput` object contains the following attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---

> `email` | String! | Company user's email address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`email` | String! | The company user's email address
```

> `firstname` | String! | Company user's first name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`firstname` | String! | The company user's first name
```

> `lastname` | String! | Company user's last name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`lastname` | String! | The company user's last name
```

> `job_title` | String! | Company user's job title

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`job_title` | String! | The company user's job title or function
```

> `role_id` | ID! | Company user's role ID

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`role_id` | ID! | The role ID to assign to the company user
```

`status` | CompanyUserStatusEnum! | Indicates whether the company user is ACTIVE or INACTIVE

> `telephone` | String! | Company user's phone number

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`telephone` | String! | The company user's phone number
```

`target_id` | ID | The ID of a node within a company's structure. This ID will be the parent of the created company user

## Output attributes

The `CreateCompanyUserOutput` output object contains the following attribute:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`user` | Customer! | Contains company user data

### Customer attributes {#Customer}

{% include graphql/customer-output-24.md %}

## Errors

Error | Description
--- | ---

> `Invitation was sent to an existing customer, they will be added to your organization once they accept the invitation.` | The customer with email provided in the `input`.`email` argument belongs to an existing customer. The invitation was sent to an existing customer. The customer will assign to the company after accepting the invitation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Invitation was sent to an existing customer, they will be added to your organization once they accept the invitation.` | The email provided in the `input`.`email` argument belongs to an existing customer. Magento will send an invitation  to this customer. When the customer accepts the invitation, the customer will be assigned to the company.
```

> `A customer with the same email already assigned to company.` | The email provided in the `input`.`email` argument belongs to an existing customer and the customer has already assigned to the company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`A customer with the same email already assigned to company.` | The email provided in the `input`.`email` argument belongs to an existing customer, and the customer has already been assigned to the company.
```

---
group: graphql
title: createCompanyUser mutation
contributor_name: Atwix
contributor_link: https://www.atwix.com/
b2b_only: true
---

> The createCompanyUser mutation allows an existing company user with the role contained "Magento_Company::users_edit" permission to create a new company user. The specified email address determines how Magento processes the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `createCompanyUser` mutation allows an existing company user who is assigned a role that contains the `Magento_Company::users_edit` permission to create a new company user. The specified email address determines how Magento processes the request.
```

> If the email address is unique for the website?/store?/store view?, Magento immediately creates the company user.

Reviewer: This line needs to be edited. I wasn't sure about the scope.

If the email address belongs to a customer who is not a company user, Magento sends an invitation to join the company organization to the customer. When the customer accepts the invitation, Magento adds the customer to the company organization.

If the email address belongs to an existing company user with the same company, Magento returns the error "A customer with the same email already assigned to company".

> If the email address belongs to a customer who is part of another company organization, Magento returns the error "A customer with the same email already assigned to company".

Reviewer: Since Magento doesn't differentiate between same-company and different-company emails, let's consolidate the last two "If" statements into "If the email address belongs to a customer who is part of any company organization,"

Also, make each of the If statements a bulleted item.

The `target_id` input attribute allows you to specify which node in the company structure will be the parent node of the company user. If you do not specify a value, the user will be assigned to the top-level (root) node of the company structure.

You can get the `target_id` and the `role_id` with the [`company`]({{page.baseurl}}/graphql/queries/company.html) query.

## Syntax

```graphql
mutation {
    createCompanyUser(
        input: CompanyUserCreateInput!
    ) {
        CreateCompanyUserOutput
    }
}
```

## Example usage

> The following example shows the minimal payload to add a company user. Because a `targit_id` is not specified, Magento places the new company user at the top node of the company structure.

Author: Wow. This is typo.
Thank you @rogyar

```json
{
  "data": {
    "createCompanyUser": {
      "user": {
        "created_at": "2020-10-15 23:39:11",
        "email": "jane.doe@example.com",
        "firstname": "Jane",
        "lastname": "Doe",
        "job_title": "User",
        "role": {
          "id": "NTc=",
          "name": "Default User"
        },
        "team": {
          "id": "MQ==",
          "name": "Test Team",
          "structure_id": "Mg=="
        },
        "status": "ACTIVE",
        "telephone": "1234567890"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Input attributes

The `CompanyUserCreateInput` input object defines the company user data.

### CompanyUserCreateInput attributes {#CompanyUserCreateInput}

The `CompanyUserCreateInput` object contains the following attributes:

Attribute |  Data Type | Description
--- | --- | ---
`email` | String! | The company user's email address
`firstname` | String! | The company user's first name
`lastname` | String! | The company user's last name
`job_title` | String! | The company user's job title or function
`role_id` | ID! | The role ID to assign to the company user
`status` | CompanyUserStatusEnum! | Indicates whether the company user is ACTIVE or INACTIVE

> `telephone` | String! | The company user's phone number

Reviewer: `telephone` isn't in alphabetical order

> `target_id` | ID | The ID of a node within a company's structure. This ID will be the parent of the created company user

Author: Hello @rogyar 
Thank you for your review.
It is described in the top paragraphs.

> `target_id` | ID | The ID of a node within a company's structure. This ID will be the parent of the created company user

Reviewer: Yes, this is the preferred method of documenting non-intuitive attributes and objects. The descriptions here should be very similar to the `@description` text in the schema file. Eventually, the GraphQL documentation will be auto-generated, and we don't want to lose critical information.
